im:-
The aim is to learn effective collaboration using Git , including forking , branching , merging
code changes and submitting pull requests.

Description:-
This experiment focuses on best practices for working with Git in a team setting. It explains step
by step how to fork a repository , clone it , set up an upstream remote , keep your fork updated , create
branches for different features , push changes and finally submit & merge pull requests

Commands and their explanations:-
Step 1: Forking a Repository
Forking creates a personal copy of the original project in your own Github account. This allows
you to make changes without affecting the main project.

To fork a repository , go to its Github page
Click the “Fork” button at the top-right corner. Create a new repository name in own account.
GitHub will create a copy of the repository under your account. You can now make changes in
your forked repository
Step 2: Cloning the Forked Repository
You can clone it by pasting the forked repository url in :
git clone < forked repository url >
This will create a local copy of the repository on your computer.

Step 3: Adding an Upstream Remote

Navigate to the cloned repository directory:-
cd example-repo
Step 4: Keeping Your Forked Repository Up to Date

Fetch the latest changes from upstream:-
git fetch upstream
Switch to the master branch:-
git checkout master
Merge the upstream changes into your local main branch:-
git merge upstream/main
Step 5: Creating Branches for Collaborative Work

Create a new branch:-
git branch update-branch
Switch to the new branch:-
git checkout update-branch
Step 6: Pushing Changes and Creating a Pull Request
How to Push Changes to GitHub

Stage and commit your changes:-
git add .
git commit -m "Added new feature"
Push the branch to GitHub:-
git push origin feature-branch
Creating a Pull Request (PR)

Go to your forked repository on GitHub.
Navigate to the “Pull requests” tab.
Click "New Pull Request".
Select:
• Base branch: main (original repository)
• Compare branch: feature-branch (your branch)
Add a title and description explaining your changes.
Click "Create Pull Request".
Step 7: Reviewing and Merging Pull Requests
Once the pull request is approved after reviewing the pull request , merge your changes
into the main repository .

Result:-
Hence, collaborating with users on git by forking their repositories, fetching changes from parent
repositories and pushing changes to parent repository through pull requests has been completed successfully.

